---
layout: post
title: GOOS-SM
description: >
    GPU-Oriented Operations Server for Sparse Matrix
modified: 2016-10-26
category: [High Performance Computing]
tags: [projects, GPGPU, CUDA]
---

* Array operations are useful in a large number of important scientific codes, such as molecular dynamics, climate modeling, atmosphere, ocean sciences, and etc.
* To calculate the sparse matrix efficiently is a crucial issue (time) in many applications.

## Motivation

* A data distribution scheme on the distributed memory multicomputers was the important research topic in the past.
* Data distribution scheme
 * Send Followed Compress (SFC)
 * Compress Followed Send (CFS)
 * Encoding-Decoding (ED)
* Graphics Processing Unit (GPU) has become an attractive coprocessor for scientific computing due to its massive processing capability.
* There are several manuscripts about sparse matrix applications on the GPU have been published.

## Goal

* Design the strategies for efficiently large amounts of compressing sparse matrices by using three data distribution schemes based on the GPU.
* The compressed sparse matrices in GPU can be queried for other matrix operations executing.

## Parallelism scheme

* Intra-task parallelization
 * Each task is assigned to one thread block and all dimBlock threads in the thread block cooperate to perform the task in parallel.

## Gonclusion

* Optimal techniques using CUDA
 * Intra-task parallelization
 * Work-Efficient Parallel Scan
 * Avoiding Bank Conflicts
 * Coalescing
 * Cache Configurable
* Using 12 GPUs, speedup can up to 55x
 * 6000, 1024*1024 sparse matrix, total 23.4GB

[PDF](https://github.com/coldfunction/coldfunction.github.io/blob/master/documents/GOOS-SM_cuda.pdf)
		

	


